Let's walk through actually installing and setting up Prometheus on an EC2 instance.
So I'm here in my AWS Console and I'm going to go into EC2,
and I want to scroll down to launch instance.
Now, there are a lot of different AMIs,
these are called or instance types,
they represent many different flavors of operating systems.
I've got Amazon Linux,
Red Hat Enterprise Linux,
I've got SUSE Linux Enterprise,
I've got Ubuntu, I've got a lot of different versions,
even Windows is in here.
They have deep learning AMIs to
help with just different types of data science and things like that.
So I'm not going to try to go through all of the different types,
but I do want to mention that the instance type that you pick here in
the end is not going to matter a whole lot because
you're still going to end up with a Prometheus server that's running.
You could, once you've got some expertise behind you being
able to pick any of these instance types that you
have preference over or that you think is maybe
more performer or you've got some more experience with.
You could pick Windows even,
you might have some trouble getting Prometheus to run on Windows,
but you could actually do it,
and you could do it right here in AWS EC2.
Our tutorial that we have in the class actually is using Ubuntu.
So we want to make sure that we pick Ubuntu at this moment,
because the instructions are going to match up
with an Ubuntu server as we want to make sure that we're not getting lost there.
So I'm going to search for Ubuntu right here and scroll down just a little bit,
because they've got some older versions in here,
16 and 18, and I'm going to choose 20 because it's newer.
I'm going to choose this one because it's free tier eligible.
I'm also going to choose the t2 micro size,
because this is also a free tier eligible,
and Prometheus is a really lightweight system I don't really
need a very heavy or a very large instance type.
On this screen, this is got a lot of options on it and it's maybe a little bit scary,
but really all you have to do is make sure that the default VPC is set.
All of the other options you can leave as complete defaults.
Here also the default works really well for us,
because Prometheus doesn't need a lot of database or a lot of space on
the disk where it was going to keep the database
so we're going to stick with eight gigabytes just for right now.
We can always raise that later.
I like to add a tag right here.
I know I could do this later on,
but if I do it right here, I won't forget.
So I'm going to add a name tag with a capital N,
because that is going to correspond with
the name of the instance that appears in the list.
So I'm going to call this Prometheus Instance.
So you could call that almost anything,
but I do encourage you to keep this name fairly descriptive.
I'm also going to add another tag that helps me to know when I created this,
sometimes these tags help me.
So now I'm going to configure the security group.
In the tutorial, you'll find that they are asking you to
go ahead and add rules here to add more ports.
You can also reuse
a security group that you've created in the past, which I have right here.
I've got one called Prometheus so mine has opened up a few ports,
including 9090, which is the requirement for this demo.
So now I just get to look over all of my settings and yeah,
it looks like everything is pretty much good,
so I'm going to click "Launch."
So here I would be able to create
a new key pair where I can give it a name and then I can download the key,
or if I already have a key pair created,
I can choose an existing key pair.
So I've got one created called Prometheus,
I'm going to choose that, and then I'm going to click the box that says acknowledge.
So then we will launch the instance.
So now that instance is launching,
I can actually click here and go in and see some of its details.
Here's my Prometheus Instance,
it picked up that tag by the name.
We can see here that it's pending,
and right down here below,
you've got a few interesting things,
especially right here, Public DNS.
This is the host name,
and here is the public IP address.
If you use an IP address,
that IP address actually could be pulled out from under you at any moment,
because you're not guaranteed to keep the same IP address forever and ever.
However, the host name is something that will live for the life of this instance,
it will never change.
So I'm actually going to copy this host name,
because that's gonna be useful here in just a moment.
So over here in the terminal now we want to actually go into SSH,
into our Prometheus instance and EC2,
I'm in my local machine in my terminal,
and so I want to call ssh -i,
and I'm going to give it the name of my pem file, right there.
Then I'm going to give it the username of my EC2 instance.
In this case, since I chose Ubuntu,
I'm going to use Ubuntu as the username @,
and then I'm going to paste the host name that I just copied from the AWS console.
That should be enough. Once I press "Enter," then I'll get a chance to actually
login to that instance from my local machine.
So now we're inside of the Ubuntu instance in AWS via SSH,
you can see that my prompt has changed ever so slightly,
it shows that I'm in Ubuntu IP,
and there's the IP address that it has.
So now I'm going to actually download the Prometheus server from GitHub using wget,
which is going to put this tar file in the folder where I am right here.
That was fast. So now I want to extract the files from that tar file,
and press "Enter" to extract.
Then now we have a new folder called Prometheus 2.19 all that,
we will go into that folder,
and from here we can actually check the version of Prometheus,
and we can see that we have version 2.19 just as expected.
So the default installation should have
a configuration file that we can take a look at real quick.
So we'll say cat prometheus.yml.
There's definitely a lot going on in a configuration file like this,
so we won't go over everything about it right now.
The fact that we have a configuration file is definitely encouraging.
So let's actually start up Prometheus so that we can access it from our browser.
Once we see this wall of text in our console,
we know that our server is ready.
So let's navigate in our browser to the URL or
the host name for our EC2 instance with port 9090,
so that we can go directly to Prometheus there it is.
Prometheus is now running on our EC2 instance.